SEO Blog Post - best mcp servers for startups (#16713)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-mcp-servers-for-startups.mdx

featuredImage: >-
    https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/hog_ql.png
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
seo:
    {
        metaTitle: 'The best MCP servers for startups, by category',
        metaDescription: 'A practical guide to the best MCP servers for startups, covering code, project management, communication, data, search, and core building blocks.',
    }
---

import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

There are tens of thousands of MCP servers in the wild as of writing this article – [Glama](https://glama.ai/mcp/servers) lists over 22,000, [PulseMCP](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers) tracks 14,000+, and [mcp.so](https://mcp.so/) and other registries add thousands more. 

A few hundred are genuinely useful (more on those below). A lot of them aren't.

For a startup trying to wire up Claude, Cursor, Codex, or [PostHog Code](/code) to actually do work – answering questions about your codebase, querying your data, posting to Slack, reading Linear tickets and so on –, the question isn't *"which 200 servers should I install"* but rather *"which handful actually pay off?"*.

> If you don't want to waste time installing and configuring servers that don't do anything for you, or sifting through unmaintained side projects, demos, and proof-of-concepts that haven't been touched in months, you've come to the right place.

Reviewer: a big thing missing imo in the intro is about composability!

the reason MCP is useful isn't that you can connect Linear and other stuff like plugins, it's that you can connect tools from Linear and PostHog and GitHub in different layers and permutations and stuff without needing to actually change tabs or product context

example:

> You notice retention dropped last week. You ask your agent to investigate.
> Without you specifying where to look, it:
>
> pulls the retention trend from **PostHog**
> checks what shipped last week from **GitHub**
> finds the **Linear** ticket for the feature that went out
> sees a comment on that ticket flagging a edge case that wasn't fully tested
> cross-references with an error spike in PostHog that started the same day the deploy went out

that's a big selling point of MCPs that makes them useful compared to CLIs - the ability to mix and match different parts and remix sort of to create workflows that connect across diff products, back and forth in diff orders, etc.

Author: great callout, will add!

This guide covers the MCP servers we think every startup should know about, grouped by category.

<details>
  <summary>What is an MCP server?</summary>

An **MCP server** is a process that exposes tools, resources, or data to an AI agent through the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) – an open standard introduced by Anthropic in late 2024 and now supported by Claude, Cursor, ChatGPT, Codex, Windsurf, VS Code, Zed, and others.
 

> What this looks like in practice:

Reviewer: i think we can cut out this box/section - the people who would come across this are likely to know what it looks like to integrate MCPs, and the examples aren't super useful (since it depends so much on what they are using it for)

another option is to have a section like this within each workflow category

*Alts (stack dependent):* [Discord MCP](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers?q=discord) (community, multiple options) if your team or community lives there, [Microsoft Teams MCP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/in-depth-guides/ai/mcp/overview) if you use Teams for whatever reason (our condolences).

## Data (analytics, error tracking, feature flags, session replay...)

### PostHog MCP

The [PostHog MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol) at `https://mcp.posthog.com/mcp` exposes the entire PostHog platform to AI agents – [product analytics](/product-analytics), [feature flags](/feature-flags), [experiments](/experiments), [session replay](/session-replay), [surveys](/surveys), [error tracking](/error-tracking), [data warehouse](/data-stack), [CDP](/cdp), [LLM observability](/llm-analytics), plus dashboards, cohorts, alerts, annotations, and notebooks.

It's hosted, OAuth-based, free to use (no charges on your PostHog bill for MCP calls), and works in Claude Code, Claude Desktop, Cursor, Codex, VS Code, Zed, and Windsurf, plus OAuth-based clients like Lovable and Replit.

> **What makes it useful for a startup:** instead of opening separate dashboards to ask "what's our retention this week?", "are there any errors spiking right now?", "which feature flags are rolled out to less than 50% of users?", or "what's our LLM spend today vs yesterday?", you ask your editor. The agent runs the right query, returns the answer, and you keep working.

Reviewer: i would love to see this "what makes it useful for startups" in every section!

Postgres MCP exposes your schema and lets the agent run SQL. Supabase's goes further – auth, edge functions, storage, in addition to the database. Both default to read-only, which is the right setting for production databases. If you need write access, scope it carefully.

**Best for:** Anyone doing data exploration or SQL work directly in their editor.

*Alts (stack dependent):* [MongoDB MCP](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/mongodb-mcp-server/) for document stores, [Snowflake](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cortex-agents-mcp) or [BigQuery](https://docs.cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/use-bigquery-mcp)) MCPs for warehouse work, [Redis MCP](https://github.com/redis/mcp-redis) for caching and session data.

## Search and web

### A web search MCP (Brave, Exa, or Tavily)

LLMs are more powerful when armed with current information, and search MCPs are how you give them that. Our three favourite options:

> - **Brave Search MCP** – Brave's privacy-focused web search, with a generous free tier. 

Reviewer: missing links?

- **Linear** or **Notion** for project context
- **PostHog** for analytics, errors, feature flags, and more
- **Brave Search** for current info
- **Filesystem** for local code work

That's six servers, covers 80% of daily workflows, and takes under an hour to install.

### For a developer tools company

- **GitHub** + **Filesystem**
- A deployment MCP (**Cloudflare** if you're on Workers, **Vercel** for Next.js, **Render** otherwise)
- **PostHog**
- **Postgres** or **Supabase**
- **Linear**
- Web search (**Exa** for research-heavy, **Brave** otherwise)

### For an AI-native startup

- **GitHub** + **Filesystem**
- A deployment MCP (**Vercel** or **Cloudflare** for inference at the edge)
- **PostHog** (with [LLM observability](/llm-analytics)) for traces and costs
- A database MCP for your app data
- Web search
- **Linear** or **Notion** for project tracking

### For an operations- or content-heavy team

- **Notion** + **Linear** or **Asana**
- **Slack**
- A search MCP (**Brave** or **Exa**)
- **PostHog** if you have a product or Mixpanel/Amplitude
- Skip the dev tooling unless engineers will use it

## Is PostHog right for you?

Here's the (short) sales pitch.

> We're biased, obviously, but **PostHog's MCP**(/docs/model-context-protocol) is worth installing if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're biased, obviously, but the **[PostHog MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol)** is worth installing if:
```

- You want to query analytics, feature flags, errors, and LLM traces directly from your editor without context-switching to a dashboard
- You're already using PostHog (or want to start; the [free tier](/pricing) covers 1M events, 5K session recordings, 1M feature flag requests, and a lot more per month)
- You value open source and transparent pricing

Setup takes about a minute via the [PostHog Wizard](/wizard) or the [connector directory](/docs/model-context-protocol).

<WizardCTA />

## Frequently asked questions
 
<details>
  <summary>Why does an MCP matter for startups?</summary>

> For startups, MCP matters because it turns "we need to integrate AI with our tools" from a custom-engineering project into a plug-in problem. Instead of building bespoke integrations, you install a server, and your AI client gets new capabilities. That dramatically lowers the cost of having AI actually do work in your stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For startups, MCP matters because it turns "we need to integrate AI with our tools" from a custom-engineering project into a plug-in problem. Instead of building bespoke integrations, you install a server, and your AI client gets new capabilities. That dramatically lowers the cost of having AI actually do work in your stack – extremely useful when you need to be scrappy and fast.
```

(something here to connect it to being a startup and having fewer resources/people)
